FISH-306 Payara IntelliJ IDEA Plugin documentation (#72)
payara/Payara-Community-Documentation: docs/modules/ROOT/pages/documentation/ecosystem/intellij-plugin/payara-micro.adoc

= Payara Micro tools in IntelliJ

[[create-micro-maven-project]]
== Creating new Payara Micro Maven Application

> * Simply start up the IntelliJ IDEA and then Choose *File ? New ? Project* from the main menu and 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Simply start up IntelliJ IDEA and then Choose *File > New > Project* from the main menu and 
```

select the *Payara Micro* project type: 

image::intellij-plugin/payara-micro/create-new-project.png[Generate Payara Micro Application]

* Enter the groupId, artifactId, etc to set up the project, and then click *Next*:

image::intellij-plugin/payara-micro/project-gav-details.png[Enter GAV]

* On the Project name and Location panel, enter *sample-micro-app* as the project name, 
set the Project destination folder and click *Finish*:

image::intellij-plugin/payara-micro/project-name-details.png[Enter Project name]

* When you click Finish, the IDE creates the following projects from the Payara Micro maven archetype:

image::intellij-plugin/payara-micro/generating-micro-project.png[Generating Micro project]

* Once the project is generated, you may either add the project to the current workspace or 
open in a new window:

image::intellij-plugin/payara-micro/generated-micro-project.png[Generated Micro project]

* As you can see, the project has a basic structure with *src\main\java* and *src\main\webapp* folders:

image::intellij-plugin/payara-micro/project-structure.png[Project source tree]

Payara Micro application can be managed via IntelliJ Run/Debug configuration or Actions, 

> where Run configuration can be customized as per developer choice and Actions are quick & easy to use:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
where Run configuration can be customized as by the developer and Actions are quick & easy to use:
```

[[run-micro-project-via-config]]
== Run the Payara Micro Application via configuration:

> The IntelliJ IDEA needs a run configuration to build the artifacts and run the Payara Micro application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
IntelliJ IDEA needs a run configuration to build the artifacts and run the Payara Micro application.
```

* From the main menu, select *Run | Edit Configurations*:

image::intellij-plugin/payara-micro/create-run-config.png[Create Config]

* In the *Run/Debug Configurations* dialog, click *+*, expand the *Payara Micro* node, and select *Maven*:

image::intellij-plugin/payara-micro/create-maven-run-config.png[Create Micro Maven Config]

> * Now add the Before launch tasks and assign a new artifact, click + on the left-hand pane, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Now add the Before launch tasks and assign a new artifact, click *+* on the left-hand pane, 
```

choose the *Build Artifacts* type from the drop-down list:

image::intellij-plugin/payara-micro/build-artifact.png[Build artifact]

* In the *Select Artifacts* dialog, select to build the *sample-micro-app:war* artifact:

image::intellij-plugin/payara-micro/choose-artifact.png[Choose artifact]

* Now save the configuration:

image::intellij-plugin/payara-micro/save-config.png[Save Configuration]

* To start the Payara Micro instance, click the run button in the top-right panel:

image::intellij-plugin/payara-micro/run-config.png[Run Configuration]

* After running the Micro application, you may see the log in the OUTPUT window:

image::intellij-plugin/payara-micro/run-log.png[Payara Micro log]

=== Debugging the Payara Micro Application

* Instead of pressing the *Run* button, you can instead click *Debug* from similar 
locations to automatically start the micro instance and attach the debugger to the application:

image::intellij-plugin/payara-micro/debug-config.png[Debug Configuration]

> * After debugging the Payara Micro application, you may see the log in the *Debug ? Console* window:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* After debugging the Payara Micro application, you may see the log in the *Debug > Console* window:
```

Author: Seems something went wrong from copying one editor to other as I was using this symbol →

image::intellij-plugin/payara-micro/debug-log.png[Payara Micro debug log]

> * After the debugger session starts and the application hit the breakpoint, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* After the debugger session starts and the application hits the breakpoint, 
```

the line where the servlet paused gets highlighted and the Debug tool window 

> appears with the list of running threads and stack-trace:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
appears with the list of running threads and the stack-trace:
```

image::intellij-plugin/payara-micro/debug-breakpoint.png[Payara Micro debug breakpoint hit]

[[run-micro-project-via-actions]]
== Run the Payara Micro Application via actions:

The Payara IntelliJ tools also provide inbuilt actions to manage the Payara Micro 
application without creating the project configuration, which internally executes 
Payara Micro Maven/Gradle plugin goals/tasks:

> * To invoke the actions, Goto *Help* menu ? *Find Action..*:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* To invoke the actions, Goto *Help > Find Action..*:
```
